# Avalonia.Win32MsgBox
A common source of frustration for new users of the Avalonia toolkit is the lack
of built-in support for creating simple modal message boxes.  Third-party
libraries exist for this, but their flexibility can make them complicated to use.

This library seeks to create something more akin to the WPF experience where all
you need is a single function call.  The simplest possible way to generate a
dialog box containing text and a few buttons.

The code is a basic wrapper around the Win32 [MessageBoxEx](https://learn.microsoft.com/en-us/windows/win32/api/winuser/nf-winuser-messagebox)
API.

## Features
This library provides several different types of pre-defined dialogs:

 - Errors
 - Warnings
 - Information
 - Yes/No
 - Yes/No/Cancel
 - Retry/Cancel
 - Cancel/Retry/Continue
 - Abort/Retry/Ignore

You can also create your own customized dialogs by calling the low-level method
`MsgBox` directly.  See [Microsoft's documentation](https://learn.microsoft.com/en-us/windows/win32/api/winuser/nf-winuser-messagebox)
for details about the options that control the dialog's appearance.

## Limitations
Since this wraps a Win32 library, this code will only work under Windows. Other
platforms cannot be supported.

The dialogs are generated by `user32.dll` and will use Windows' default colors
and widgets. It may not match your customized Avalonia GUI.

Dialog box contents are limited to a simple string. This is a limitation of the
underlying Win32 function.  You can use carriage return characters to split a
long message across multiple lines.

## Installing
Simply copy the `Win32MsgBox.cs` file into your codebase.  No packages required.

## Usage

    using Avalonia.Win32MsgBox;
    
    // Display a simple informational message
    Win32MsgBox.ShowInfo(parent_window, "Hello world!");
    
    // Prompt the user to make a decision
    MsgBoxRetVal ret = Win32MsgBox.ShowYesNoCancel(parent_window, "Exit program?");

The `Win32MsgBoxDemo` program contains examples of all of the pre-defined dialogs.
